We last see Asajj Ventress in the Season 5
final of The Clone Wars.
So what happened to her afterwards?
Her story continues in the book ‘Dark Disciple’.
After helping Ahsoka Tano prove her innocence
over the bombing of the Jedi Temple, Ventress
left Coruscant and went on to live in a modified
gunship and continued her bounty hunting business.
During this time, she grew out her hair and
obtained a yellow lightsaber from the black
market to replace the two red lightsabers
she lost on Coruscant.
As a Bounty Hunter, she made a name for herself
and became familiar with many of the galaxy’s
famous underworld figures.
She befriended a pirate named Lassa Rhayme,
after helping her steal precious cargo from
Hondo’s gang.
Rhyme offered Ventress to be in her pirate
crew, but Ventress refused, saying to her
that she prefered to live and work alone.
She later took up a bounty that required her
to capture a Volpai by the name of Moregi.
As she was tracking him down, she bumped into
Quinlan Vos who was disguised as a bounty
hunter.
Unknown to Ventress, Vos was in fact a Jedi
Master who had been assigned by the Jedi Council
to go undercover as a bounty hunter and gain
Ventress's trust.
His ultimate goal was to assassinate Count
Dooku, and he believed that partnering up
with Ventress would help him because she was
familiar with Count Dooku due to her previous
service to him.
She initially disliked him, but let him help
her hunt her bounty.
The two of them eventually captured Moregi
and split the money.
Afterwards, Vos insisted a partnership with
Ventress.
She reluctantly accepted the offer, due to
his impressive skills and also because she
was attracted to him.
The two of them took on many bounty hunter
jobs, including jobs from Rhyme and the Pyke
Syndicate.
Overtime they grew feelings for each other,
but kept their affections to themselves.
Vos, overcome with his feelings for ventress,
eventually told Ventress that he was indeed
a Jedi and that he was on a mission to assassinate
Count Dooku.
To his surprise, Ventress already knew, citing
his unnatural agility and combat abilities.
She agreed to help him by training him in
the darker aspects of the Force so that the
two of them could stand a better chance against
Count Dooku.
She took him to Dathomir, her homeworld and
a planet filled in the energies of the dark
side.
Upon arrival, they witnessed the skeletal
remains of the Nightsister massacre carried
out by General Grievous about a year before.
There, the two of them exchanged their life
stories.
She told him about her enslavement and the
loss of her Jedi Master Ky Narek, and how
they lead her to the path of the darkside.
He told her how he too lost his Master who
went by the name of Tholme.
Even though Ventress was the one who killed
Tholme, she told him that it was Count Dooku
who killed him.
During the training, Ventress trained Vos
in the teachings and culture of the Nightsisters
use of the dark side of the force.
She had him kill innocent animals with the
force, use the dark side to control beasts,
train in aggressive lightsaber combat, and
to use his hatred when performing the force.
As the training went on, they revealed their
feelings for one another and fell in love.
Vos declared that after the assassination
was done, he would not return to the Jedi
and would instead commit himself to Ventress.
Ventress eventually received information on
Dooku’s whereabouts from her contact who
was still apart of the Confederacy of Independent
Systems.
She told Ventress that Count Dooku was going
to soon visit the Separatist capital world
of Raxus to attend a ceremony.
The two of them made their way to Raxus, where
they disguised themselves and were able to
get close enough to Count Dooku to confront
him.
They confronted him in a 2 to 1 duel.
However, Grievous joined in and tipped the
fight in favor of Dooku.
Ventress and Vos were overwhelmed by both
foes and the incoming droid forces.
Ventress was forced to escape, leaving Vos
to being captured by Count Dooku.
Ventress swore to herself that she would rescue
him.
Meanwhile, Vos embraced the full power of
the dark side, believing Ventress set him
up to fail the whole time.
Ventress knew that Dooku would take Vos to
his palace on Serenno for imprisonment, and
that she needed help rescuing him.
She got the help of Boba Fett, Bossk, Razzi,
C-21 Highsinger, and Embo, after negotiating
to pay them 250,000 credits for the rescue
mission.
They arrived to Serenno on Boba Fett’s ship,
Slave 1.
There, the bounty hunters acted as a distraction
for the palace’s droid security forces while
Ventress snuck inside the palace to find Vos.
She eventually found him broken, from being
tortured by Dooku.
When Vos sensed her, he attacked her, calling
her a liar and manipulator.
He found out that it was her who killed his
Master Thomle, not Dooku.
As they fought each other, they made their
way out of the palace, where they would see
the bounty hunters fighting Dooku.
Vos attempted to aid Dooku in his fight, and
that was when Ventress knew that Vos not only
embraced to dark side, but he joined the Sith
Order itself.
Ventress and the bounty hunters barely escaped
the failed rescue mission.
Still wishing to rescue Vos and having no
other options left, Ventress decided to reach
out to the Jedi.
She contacted Obi Wan and met him in a bar
on Coruscant.
There she told him what happened to Vos.
Afterwards, the two parted ways, and Ventress
went back to work as a bounty hunter.
She returned to live on Coruscant on Level
1313.
There she fell into a deep depression worsened
by alcoholism and severe insomnia.
She was haunted by thoughts of Vos, who had
became Count Dooku’s new right hand man
with the new name "Admiral Enigma".
She later met Akar-Deshu, a Jedi Knight and
a close friend of Vos, who seeked Ventress
in order to have her help get Vos back.
She agreed, and followed the Jedi knight back
to the Jedi Temple.
There she went before the Jedi Council, where
Yoda gave her a mission to help Anakin and
Obi Wan capture and redeem Vos.
She accepted, wanting to get her lover back
and also because Yoda promised to officially
pardon her of all her past crimes.
Ventress and the 2 Jedi would eventually land
in Dooku’s Providence-class dreadnought,
where they believed they would find Vos.
There they confronted Dooku and discovered
that Vos was still a prisoner and that he
never actually joined Dooku.
They rescued Vos and escaped Dooku’s dreadnought.
They made it back to the Jedi Temple where
Ventress was pardoned for her past crimes
and Vos rejoined the Jedi.
Unknown to the Jedi, Vos was still under the
influence of the dark side.
However, Yoda suspected this and decided to
test Vos’ allegiance by sending him once
again on a mission to assassinate Count Dooku.
Vos was able to convince Ventress to join
him on this mission and she accepted.
He gave her forgiveness over killing his master
and told her he still loves her.
During the mission, they tracked Dooku to
Christophsis, where they confronted him once
more.
They got overwhelmed and Ventress sacrificed
herself to save Vos from a lethal blast of
force lighting from Dooku.
Seeing his lover being killed, Vos defeated
Dooku.
As he did, he felt a sense of clarity and
spared Dooku’s life.
Vos then attended to Ventress who died in
his arms.
Dooku escaped and Vos was brought back into
the Jedi Order after attending a hearing with
the Jedi Council.
They let him back in after admitting that
sending him on a mission to assassinate Dooku
was not the Jedi way in the first place and
felt some of the blame for Vos turning to
the dark side was on them.
Both Vos and Obi Wan attended Ventress's funeral
on Dathomir, where she was buried in the traditional
way of her people.